Chewy Gingerbread Cookies
---
Source: New York Times Cooking
Author: Sohla El-Waylly
Time: 35 min 
Yield: 24 cookies
---
Ingredients
FOR THE COOKIES
14 tablespoons/200 grams unsalted butter, cut into pieces
3 tablespoons/50 grams finely grated fresh ginger
1 tablespoon ground ginger
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
½ teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
2 cups/240 grams confectioners’ sugar
3 tablespoons/60 grams unsulphured molasses
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1¼ teaspoon kosher salt (Diamond Crystal)
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 large egg, room temperature
2 cups/250 grams all-purpose flour
FOR THE COATING
¼ cup/50 grams granulated sugar
2 teaspoons ground ginger
---
Preparation
Step 1
In a medium saucepan over medium, melt butter until foamy, about 3 minutes. Continue cooking butter, stirring and scraping frequently with a stiff silicone spatula, until the sputtering has subsided and the butter solids look deeply browned, 3 to 5 minutes. Remove from heat, then whisk in the fresh ginger and ground spices. Scrape the butter and any brown bits at the bottom into the bowl of a stand mixer (or into a large bowl if using a hand mixer). Set aside until cool, slightly solid, but still creamy, about 20 minutes in the refrigerator or 2 hours at room temperature.
Step 2
Add confectioners’ sugar, molasses, vanilla, salt and baking soda to the cooled butter. Mix on low with the paddle attachment, stopping once to scrape the bowl and paddle, until creamy and combined, about 1 minute.
Step 3
Add the egg and mix on medium until pale and fluffy, stopping once to scrape the bowl and paddle, about 2 minutes. Add flour and mix until evenly combined, about 30 seconds. Cover and chill for at least 2 hours and up to 3 days before baking.
Step 4
Prepare the sugar coating: In a small bowl, stir together the sugar and ground ginger. Line two sheet pans with parchment paper, arrange the racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven, and heat oven to 375 degrees.
Step 5
Using a #40 cookie scoop or two spoons, scoop the cookie dough into 2-tablespoon portions (30 grams). Roll the portioned cookie dough into balls and coat in the ginger sugar. Arrange on the sheet tray at least 1 inch apart and bake until set and lightly browned around the edges, about 10 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack to cool.