Shortbread Cookies
---
Source: King Arthur Flour
Prep Time: 15 min 
Yield: 2 dozen wedges
---
Ingredients
16 tablespoons (227g) salted butter, at cool room temperature*
1 cup (113g) confectioners' sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon almond extract, optional, or the flavor of your choice
2 cups (240g) all-purpose flour
---
Instructions
1. Preheat the oven to 300°F. Lightly grease two 9" round or 8" square cake pans. If you worry about the shortbread possibly sticking in your particular pans, line them with parchment and grease the parchment.
2. In a medium-sized bowl, beat together the butter, sugar, and extracts, then beat in the flour. The mixture may seem a little dry at first; keep beating until a stiff dough forms. If necessary, dribble in up to 1 tablespoon of water to bring the dough together.  
3. Divide the dough in half (if you have a scale, each half will weigh about 300g), and press each half into one of the prepared pans, smoothing the surface with your fingers or a mini rolling pin. If you're having trouble pressing the shortbread flat in the pan because it's sticking to your fingers, cover it with a piece of plastic wrap and push on the wrap. 
4. Remove the wrap if you've used it, then use a fork to prick ("dock") the dough all over; this allows any steam to escape, and prevents the shortbread from bubbling as it bakes. Prick the dough in a random pattern, or create a pretty design.
5. Bake the shortbread until it's a light golden brown across the top surface and a deeper golden brown around the edges, about 35 minutes.
6. Remove the shortbread from the oven and turn it out of the pans and onto a clean work surface.
7. Immediately cut the shortbread, while it's warm; if you wait until it's cool, it won't cut easily. Using a pizza wheel or sharp knife, cut each round into 12 wedges. If you've baked squares, cut each square into four smaller squares, then cut each of those into thirds to make a total of 24 strips (12 per pan). Transfer the shortbread cookies to a rack to cool.
8. Store the shortbread cookies, well wrapped, for up to a week; freeze for longer storage. The flavor improves as the shortbread cookies age.